---
title:  "Backing up files to an external drive using Python"
excerpt: "A short script to easily back up your important files."
header:
  image: assets/images/harddrive.jpg
  caption: Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@markusspiske?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Markus Spiske</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/backup?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
last_modified_at: 2021-10-27
classes: wide
tags:
  - python
  - automation
---

  
Several months ago, I wanted to start regularly backing up the important files on my laptop.
I set up cloud-based syncing of my files, including version history, but I felt like I needed to have a redundant physical backup that I occasionally would update.
I had an external drive, so I looked into some programs that would automatically copy or update my files.
None of them seemed to work well, they took a long time to run, I couldn't easily view the backup files, or they kept pushing me to upgrade to a premium service for more features.
So, instead I wrote my own ([link](https://github.com/LukeMoraglia/python_backup){:target="_blank"} to the code).

```python
# File: autobackup.py

import dirsync
import os

src = "Path_To_Folder_Being_Backedup"
dest = "Path_To_External_Drive"

if os.path.exists(dest):
    dirsync.sync(src, dest, 'sync', purge=True)
else:
    print("Backup storage not found. Exiting...")
```

The code is simple. It uses the ```sync``` function from the [dirsync package](https://github.com/tkhyn/dirsync/){:target="_blank"} to sync files from the `src` folder on your computer to the `dest` folder on your external drive.
The third argument `'sync'` in the function ensures that all the files in `src` are updated or copied over if they are not already in `dest`.
The `purge` option deletes files in `dest` that have been deleted in `src`. 
So, after the script is run, `dest` should be an exact copy of `src`. 

To easily run the script, I created a batch script since I am on Windows, and saved it to my desktop for easy access anytime I plug in my external drive (for how to run Python scripts, check out *Automate the Boring Stuff with Python* [Appendix B](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/appendixb/){:target="_blank"}).
```batch
@py "C:\Users\path_to_file\autobackup.py" %*
@pause
```

The initial copy of the files took a long time, but after that it only updates the ones that have been added, deleted, or modified, so it usually runs pretty quickly!